# msba-capstone-prep
## Summary
Home Credit, a leading financial inclusion provider, utilizes alternative data like telco and transactional information to predict repayment abilities for clients lacking traditional credit histories. Seeking to optimize their predictive models, we are striving to unlock the full potential of their data. Refining loan approval processes and terms will help ensure deserving clients access credit while minimizing financial risk. 

## Solution
By modeling using the provided data, we can find creditworthy customers that Home Credit is seeking. Through utilizing the CRISP-DM process when preparing data and modeling data, we narrowed down two models we found to be the most effective were Gradient Boosting and Random Forest. Our gradient boosting model performed the best with an inter-model AUC of .92 and a kaggle AUC of .65. 
We also found that gradient boosting trains trees sequentially, unlike random forest's independent tree construction. In the case of finding creditworthy customers, training sequentially through the data gives us better insights into the importance of the model which is what we were looking for.  

## Contribution
My contribution to the project included adding models through the modeling process, interpreting the models for business value, and putting together a slide deck of what we found. I initially created a random forest model that worked well with an AUC score of .88 and a kaggle score of .63. The gradient boosting model outperformed it so we went with that. In interpreting the gradient boosting model I was able to find some of the more important features in the model, leading to business insights used in our presentation. We had a great group that all contributed to the project.

## Business Value
The most important feature we found is that owning a car suggests financial stability and reliability. This was by far the highest importance in the gradient boosting model. When a customer owns a car, Home Credit should give those customers a loan. We also found that longer employment suggests stability and steady income. Home Credit should consider looking at employment history and with customers that have longer employment. Similar to those features, credit scores reflect how trustworthy someone is with money. Those with good credit scores should be able to get a loan even without extensive credit history. These are the customers that Home Credit should be looking for in the loan process. 

## Difficulties
Much of the difficulties that we faced were in the EDA process. For a long time, we couldn't generate the right output for the modeling process. When we finally got that figured out, now our model output wouldn't generate the correct coefficients to submit to kaggle. It was as simple as changing a function for the output. As for the model specifically, the gradient boosting model was overfitted on the complex training data. This led to a lower score than we wanted in kaggle. Another issue with the gradient boosting model is that the runtime was longer than the random forest model in both downsampling and upsampling. This was a trade-off that we had to consider but ultimately we decided that a higher AUC score was more important. 

## What I learned
I learned how to collaborate on an analytics project with a team. I had never worked on an analytics project of this magnitude with a team before so it was great to learn from my peers in contributing to a project. I also learned how to properly extract business insights from a model. It is not an easy process to find insights that are valuable to the business problem. With this project focusing on the insights gained rather than the EDA or modeling process was very worthwhile to me. I was also able to harness more of the full CRISP-DM process in an applicable project. This project made me more confident in doing the capstone project for a company next semester. 
